# Programs with multiple code files

## Compile with multiple files
- gcc: `g++ file1.cpp file2.cpp -o name`

> The compiler compiles each file individually, and has no memory of previous files. This helps prevent conflicts between identifiers in different files, and ensures that source files can be compiled in any order, and recompiling only requires the changed files to be recompiled.

- Because there's no memory between each file that gets compiled, each time you use an identifier you have to include it's header file or prototype.

## Connecting identifiers to definitions.
- In order to not have an error during compilation, identifiers must be connected to their definitions when they're used in an expression.
    - If an identifier is used in an expression in a file being compiled, and it hasn't seen a forward declaration or its definition, you will have a *compiler error*.
        - If it has been defined in the same file, the compiler will connect the use of the identifier to its definition.
        - If it has been defined in a different file, the linker will connect the identifier to its definition.
    - If the definition is not found in the current file during the compile stage, nor is it found in another file during the link stage, then the linker will issue an error.

## Questions

> Split the following program into two files (main.cpp, and input.cpp). main.cpp should have the main function, and input.cpp should have the getInteger function.

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int getInteger()
{
	std::cout << "Enter an integer: ";
	int x{};
	std::cin >> x;
	return x;
}

int main()
{
	int x{ getInteger() };
	int y{ getInteger() };

	std::cout << x << " + " << y << " is " << x + y << '\n';
	return 0;
}
```

> Answer: compile with `g++ getinteger.cpp main.cpp -o 2_8`

```cpp
// getinteger.cpp

#include <iostream>

int getInteger()
{
	std::cout << "Enter an integer: ";
	int x{};
	std::cin >> x;
	return x;
}
```

```cpp
//main.cpp

#include <iostream>

int main()
{
	int x{ getInteger() };
	int y{ getInteger() };

	std::cout << x << " + " << y << " is " << x + y << '\n';
	return 0;
}
```
